# Getting and Cleaning Datacoursera
Original description of the data set can be found at http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones.
Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory researchers carried out experiments with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The dataset includes the following files:
- 'README.txt'
- 'features_info.txt': Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.
- 'features.txt': List of all features.
- 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.
- 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.
- 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.
- 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.
- 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.

## This repo contains the following files
  run_analysis.R
  CodeBook.md
  uch_activity

### run_analysis script
Extracts physical activity recorgnition data set from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip. 

Merges the training and testing data sets into a single data set. A subset of this data set was then extracted based on for the mean and standard deviation values of in the feature sets.

### CodeBook document
Contains a description of the tidy data uch_activity.txt which was generated by the script. The data set can an be used by a read.table() function with the default settings applied.

